The world's largest tech giants are
clamoring for more power, electricity,
that is. We've heard Elon Musk talk
about how there could be shortages in
the near future.
>> My guess is people's going to start
hitting challenges with power generation
maybe uh middle of next year, end of
next year.
>> Sam Alman and Jeff Bezos have been
pointing to outer space.
>> We're going to start building these
giant gigawatt data centers in space. I
would love to go build the Dyson sphere
around the solar system and like you
know make the world's gigantic data
center with the entire energy output of
the sun.
>> How does it feel to be one of the few
people on earth who might be able to
help these guys? It's not just for the
hyperscalers and the tech companies.
It's really for the world at large. Now
this is going to be a much more
growthoriented next decade than the
prior few decades. But we know how to
build things at scale and a lot of the
technology exists. So, I like our
chances.
Sounds electric.
This week on Bold Names, Scott Strazzik.
He's the CEO of energy company GE
Vernova. And hot damn, what a wild ride
it's been for this GE Lifer. He had a
stint as head of GE's energy business.
Then in 2024, when Vernova split from
the rest of the company, he was tapped
to lead that. Since then, the company
has become a stock market darling.
That's because of the huge demand for
energy in large part because of all the
electrical needs from those tech leaders
and their artificial intelligence
ambitions, those hyperscalers. The big
question of course, will this boom go
bust? We get into that with Scott and
much more in this very electrifying
conversation.
Scott, we're so glad you could join us
today. I think most people are familiar
with what General Electric is, but maybe
not as familiar with what GE Vernova is.
Could you break down your business for
us? What do you do? You bet. I mean, GE
Vernova was born on April 2nd of 2024 as
an offshoot or spin-off of General
Electric, a company that has over 130
years of history. And that represents
all of what was General Electric's
energy businesses. We produce more than
half of the electrons in the US every
day with our equipment through our
customers. And that's across
technologies, gas power, nuclear power,
wind. We play a critical role with the
grid. So it's really about applying the
right technologies where the right
resources exist. And that's really what
GE Vernova is focused on doing every
day.
>> I mean, you're really manufacturing at
scale the energy industry products,
right? Gas turbines in particular are
important. Why are they so important
right now? Well, power density matters.
How much energy or electricity can you
create with the least amount of space?
Gas is a very power dense solution in
that regard, which is very important.
You also just are getting into a world
where the load dynamics with things like
hyperscalers are very extreme. And what
I mean by that is the megawws going up
and down can happen quickly. The reality
is gas turbines are very capable of
ramping up and down very fast to follow
the load and that's why it's so well
suited for this moment.
>> So I like that you jump straight to AI.
Uh certainly one of my favorite topics.
>> Hyperscalers. That sounds like something
out of space.
>> I mean I I I fall asleep every night
with that on my lips. Tim. Uh, so these
hyperscalers, is this the reason that
your stock has been on a tear since 2024
and the split from uh your parent
company or is it bigger than that?
>> I mean, you're up like 300%, right? I
mean, gez,
>> it's a contributor, but it's by no means
the only factor. I mean, if you take a
step back, the world is only getting
today about 20% of its energy from
electric power. The other 80% today is
still coming from molecules, fuels,
coal, and industrial applications. And
it's very hard to find someone that
doesn't believe the electric power as a
proportion of the total energy mix isn't
going to double over the next, let's
say, 25 years.
>> So you mean especially as EVs
replace gasoline for transportation and
industry electrifies, that kind of
thing?
>> As industries electrify, EVs is a very
common one. I mean heat pumps are
becoming more and more prevalent in new
homes that are getting built. So all of
these dynamics are going to lead to a
world where both industries and products
electrify and as they do that's going to
drive a greater need for our products.
So hyperscalers are part of it but it's
by no means the only factor. So we got
EVs or electric cars out there. Uh AI
models need a lot of compute which
requires a lot of electricity. We've got
heat pumps. Just demand for electricity
is huge. But I think I once heard you
talk about how this moment almost rivals
the post World War II buildout. Yes.
>> What exactly did you mean by that?
>> Well, if you look in the US uh from 1945
to 1975, every 10 years the capacity for
the electric power system double every
10 years. And then we got to 1975 and it
continued to grow but at a much slower
pace. So it took almost 35 years from
1975 to double again. And then in
reality what happened from the early
2000s until directionally now is demand
was flat. And demand was flat in the US
for a lot of reasons. It was flat
because jobs were leaving the country
manufacturing demand. It was flat
because of energy efficiency with things
like our refrigerators and microwaves.
It was also flat because technology with
things like software and the internet
drove productivity that hampered the
need for more electrons. And the
inflection point we're at now is those
same drivers that were leading to a very
flattish demand environment now need
more electrons because what's happening
more industries coming back to the US
whether it be chip factories whether it
be data centers that requires electrons
we also have things when it comes to the
internet and software well all of a
sudden AI the next productivity driver
needs even more electrons and it's a net
ad. So, we're really getting into a
phase that I'm not going to say the
total US power system is going to double
in a decade like it did from 45 to 75.
But the clear drivers of growth are
substantial and are going to be
substantial for a long period of time.
And with it, it takes us back towards a
period like 1945
where we've got to build things at
scale. So what steps are you taking to
prepare for this, you know, potential
explosion in demand for electricity?
>> Investing every day. I mean, we've
talked this year about investing 7 to
800 million in our existing factories in
the US. We're adding over 1,800
uh workers, primarily production
workers, into our factories to balance
today's products, making more of them.
But we're also investing in new products
for tomorrow. So our research and
development budget this year is going to
grow almost 25%.
Our real objective every day is to
balance expanding our existing capacity
more with the products we know how to
make today and we're doing that while
also keeping our eye on the next decade
when we're going to need some new
technologies to continue to meet this
moment.
>> And sorry what's your R&D budget now?
You said it's going to go up 25% but
what's the baseline?
>> 1.2 2 to$ 1.3 billion annually growing
at 20 to 25%.
>> I mean we're in a bit of an unusual
moment in history because typically when
people are trying to project demand for
something like electricity it's very
hard to make that prediction but we know
that you know for instance Sam Alman at
OpenAI has said that they're going to
spend more than a trillion dollars on
new infrastructure over the next few
years. So it doesn't take uh you know
much time with a napkin to calculate
what that's going to translate in terms
of gigawatts
>> of fresh electricity supply
realistically. Realistically
um is your company or you in combination
with your competitors equipped to build
enough capacity to address this
explosion in demand over the next 5
years? Yes, I think we can meet this
moment. And I think the way to caveat it
though is it's not going to be solved in
5 years. It's not just about the
equipment. It's about having the EPC or
the engineering procurement and
construction companies to build the
plants. It's about getting the gas
pipelines available. It's about working
through the permitting and land
constraints and some of the dynamics in
the country with different communities
either wanting or not these investments
in their community. What's clear is the
direction of travel is going to include
a substantial amount of investment into
this space, but I wouldn't narrow it
down to 5 years. I think we're really
looking out the next 10 to 15 years and
can we meet that moment? Verernova and
the industry at large. I'm highly
confident we can.
>> Your gas turbines are sold out through I
think 2028.
Uh so how is this not a manufacturing
bottleneck?
Well, what we say every day is we'll
make the gas turbines as fast as the
pedestals are ready for the gas turbines
to arrive. And that goes back to that
dynamic before. It's not just about
manufacturing the gas turbines. Now, if
incremental gas turbines are needed by
2028, because you're right, we're
largely sold out between now and 2028.
We'll work to solve that dynamic. What
we see today is a is an environment
where through 28 we likely are meeting
the moment. But we also acknowledge that
as the orders continue to come in as
strong as they are and as the demand
continues to rise, we may need to add
incremental capacity to meet it. But
based on everything we see today, that
incremental capacity would come later
than 2028. Yeah. More broadly, just
beyond your business, there are real
signs here in the US that we face an
energy crisis.
>> US, the administration says a new
executive order is aimed at improving
manufacturing, transportation,
agriculture, and defense industries.
>> That is why today I will also declare a
national energy emergency. We will
drill, baby drill. I know our colleagues
here at the journal have reported on
just the sheer backlog of energy
projects and the fact that our our
national grid is basically running out
of room in some locations for example
data centers won't be able to plug into
the power grid until the 2030s kind of
big picture thinking how does the US
overcome this challenge well I think in
the next 5 to seven years a lot of those
data centers may get built with the
power attached to the data center and
>> that's good for you right because you're
selling into a different customer.
Clearly an opportunity for us. Yes. Now
I think at the end of the day those uh
power foundaries and data center parks
will get connected to the grid. But if
the hyperscalers can't wait for the grid
connection, we'll build the plant. We'll
connect it to the data center as the
grid ultimately catches up. That can
ultimately be a very positive thing for
the grid system in total because in that
case once the grid connection comes at
moments where the peak power is very
high or set another way the reserve
margins in a system get very low those
uh power foundaries with the data
centers can feed the grid and provide
that peak power. So this is a dynamic
that I don't think is necessarily well
understood today, which is this is a
real opportunity to support the
utilities and support the local
communities by giving them the excess
power they need during very fractional
periods of time during the year. And it
saves those communities or those
utilities from having to build
incremental what we call peak power
that's really only needed when it's
really hot in the summer or really cold
in the winter when electricity demand
rises.
>> Right. And then those facilities aren't
being utilized the rest of the year.
It's kind of wasteful.
>> Exactly. And that's where this is a real
opportunity. You know, the idea of Open
AI or Google or whoever uh having their
own kind of energy plant, that vertical
integration almost reminds me going back
many many years to Henry Ford and the
rush to build out the automotive
industry and having to vertically
integrate the supply chain. Going down
to the the jungles to get out the rubber
to make the tires for the cars. I mean,
it's it's kind of a signal of how fast
uh this kind of growth is occurring.
Yeah, I think good businesses are very
effective at identifying what their next
bottleneck is and eliminating it. And if
the electron going back to data,
electron, and chip are the three key
components, good businesses are going to
find ways to debottleneck what could
slow them down. And today, as the
electron is becoming more challenged,
you're right, great companies are then
re-evaluating what model they're going
to use to demodel that. And that's
exactly what's happening today.
>> We've talked a lot about gas. You're
also in the nuclear business, which is
having its own renaissance, at least
from a regulatory perspective.
>> What role is that going to have in your
company's future?
>> It's a material role. I mean, we're in
construction on our first 300 megawatt
small modular reactor today.
>> Sorry. What's a small modular reactor?
That sounds like is it a suitcase uh
nuclear [laughter] thing? It sounds
pretty cool.
less suitcase, more size of a football
field. Think to yourself, the size of a
US football field, 300 megawatt.
Generally, 300 megawws to contextualize
that is enough to power 300,000 homes in
the US. So, that's not small by any
means.
>> It's a decentiz power plant on its own.
>> For sure. We have our first plan or
application into the nuclear regulatory
commission for US build for a plant in
Tennessee called Clinch River with
Tennessee Valley Authority. We expect
that the nuclear regulatory commission
will approve that build or the beginning
of construction by the summer of next
year, summer of 26. And if that happens,
we expect to be in construction on our
first plant in the US sometime in 2027.
Now, once construction starts, it's
about a 4-year build right now to go
from beginning construction to having
incremental electrons on the grid. So
for the US, we see this starting to
become a material part of the equation
in 2031, 2032, something like that, and
then growing. So, will nuclear power
solve the uh surge of demand this
decade? It won't. Can nuclear power
start to be a material contributor 2030
to 2040? You bet it can. We've got a lot
of conviction that it can and that it
will. We've talked a lot about this
surge in demand for electricity. Um,
people who who follow me on social media
or can parse the subtext of my columns
know that I think that within the cone
of possibility in the future is a
significant crash uh in terms of uh
financing
uh and then ultimately construction of
these new AI supercomputers. Um,
if something like that happens, I'm not
saying it will, what happens then? Are
you caught flatfooted if suddenly people
are cancelling orders or does that
affect uh you know your uh hiring your
buildout?
>> Well, I I would take a step back and
then say you know when people talk about
bubbles or talk about crashes so to
speak, it's often in the vein of the
equity markets at large and kind of how
different companies are valued today. I
do expect with the AI surge, there's
going to be very material winners and
losers. But in my view, based on
everything that I see, for whoever wins
in this journey, the infrastructure
buildout is substantial.
>> So you win no matter who else wins
because you're the pick and shovel
provider. They can't do it without
electrons.
>> There's going to be a need for a
substantially larger amount of electrons
in this country regardless of who wins
and loses. And I think it goes back a
little bit to the dimensions of really
our business today. I mean, we've talked
a lot about um gas turbines. Our
explicit backlog today on gas turbines
only has about 10% of the demand
attached to AI or hyperscalers. Now,
admittedly, we also talk about another
metric that we call slot reservation
agreements. These are future slots for
equipment that aren't yet orders, but
the customers have put a substantial
amount of cash down to secure the slot
while they figure out who's going to
build it, while they figure out what
sites they're going to apply it to. In
that case, it's about a third of our
slot reservation agreements are tied to
hyperscalers or AI. So, I give those
numbers to contextualize.
This is only a small proportion of the
electrification of industry. It's an
important one and it's one we're very
motivated to serve, but just it's very
hard to not believe that the world
doesn't need more energy and that for
the world to meet its goals, a large
proportion of that energy needs to come
from electricity. So, this
infrastructure buildout is going to
happen regardless. I'm just curious if
AI reflects only a small portion of that
uh projected demand. What's the pie
chart look like? Like what's the rest of
the demand going toward?
>> Well, we have regulated utilities across
the US that are simply seeing their
reserve margins come down.
>> Sorry, what's a reserve margin?
>> The amount of excess energy that exists
relative to moments of peak power. Ah,
so these utilities are saying if
something happens, if there's a lot of
demand in the winter or the summer, we
don't have enough of a buffer to make
sure that the grid stays intact.
>> That's exactly right. And what also is
happening is as we add more and more
wind and solar as the capacity, what's
needed simultaneously is more gas to
follow it. Because in reality, as you
have more intermittent or power that
comes from resources you don't control,
like the wind or the solar, you need
something else to be the force
multiplier that protects for those
moments those resources aren't there.
That fact alone is driving regulated
utilities to need more gas while they
build out those other technologies. But
this also isn't just about the US. I
mean, we've commissioned in the last few
years over 10 gawatt of new power in
Taiwan. A lot of that admittedly is
attached to the TSMC buildout for their
manufacturing.
We've done 6 gawatt in the last couple
years in Saudi Arabia. You look at India
today, our most populated country in the
world. 80% of the electricity is coming
from coal. Over time, that's going to
evolve. So hyperscalers and AI is
important and we're very motivated to
serve that opportunity, but there are a
lot of variables at play that we're
investing into to serve all of these
markets. You know, we've talked a lot
about AI here, about the the need for
electricity to power those data centers,
but I'm curious also how AI might affect
your business in other ways. It is a
technology that has the promise of at
least of being able to upend all these
traditional industries. And when I hear
Microsoft AI CEO Mustafa Sullyman, who
has been a guest on this program before,
he paints a future where energy costs
can come down dramatically uh because of
advances in AI. AI being very uh good at
finding efficiencies and take maybe
taking cost out or just making things uh
the power go further perhaps. How do you
think about that potential? What does it
what does it mean? Because he's talking
about a world where power cost comes
very cheaply.
>> Well, I think if you take a step back,
most manufacturing processes over the
medium to long term should have cost
competitive uh benefits. Okay, we won't
meet this moment without a combination
of using AI, physical AI, and a growth
of our labor pool because ultimately we
will run into challenges with labor
availability. As we get those
technologies to a place that they're
effective, that will drive a lot of
productivity and that productivity will
bend the cost curve, especially with the
amount of volume we expect to see um
going forward. I also agree with him in
the vein that there are a lot of
inefficiencies in the system that with
AI we'll be able to better point the
electrons where they're most needed.
software and AI is going to help us with
that because as our planning really
leverages weather patterns really
projects with another level of
sophistication
how much electricity is going to be
available in one location we will drive
efficiency in getting that excess
electron to the place that's most
important for it so there's real
opportunity here
>> I want to get your perspective as a as a
GE lifer which you are of course
>> so you know
some of us on this call remember during
the internet boom right uh just before
2000 there was this projection that uh
we were going to need a lot of energy
for this new internet that didn't work
out I mean kind of went the opposite way
right it led to a lot of efficiencies
what lessons do you take from history
from that history in particular do they
temper your current expectations for
what's coming next or do you feel like
oh no this time is different
>> because you don't seem tempered right
No, no,
>> very enthusiastic about it.
>> Yeah. Um, grounded enthusiasm with what
we work on every day. Um,
>> grounded enthusiasm. Is that an electric
joke? [laughter]
>> If you just take a step back and go back
to the late 90s and the early 2000s and
think about Enron, think about the
deregulation of the US that was
happening at that time. There was a
level of fragility where there was
concern especially in markets like
California that was leading to a need to
create more power for what was really
again peak margins or reserve margins
where during small periods of time there
was a risk that the existing system
would not meet the peak demand. And
during that time in the late '9s and
early 2000s, there was a very
substantial buildup in the US for the
risk of brownouts for peak demand.
Sitting here today, there is that
dynamic in certain parts of the US where
simply because of renewables growth,
simply because of the electrification of
other things, they need to invest. But
there's too many other variables at
place. When you look at the number of
chip foundaries that are being built
today in the US that need electrons,
it's a very different demand cycle. When
you look at the data centers being built
out, it's a very different demand cycle.
And I think the other difference between
99 and today is what we talked about
earlier with other global markets,
Taiwan, Saudi that are also
demonstrating real demand. Now, that
doesn't mean every day we're not
scrutinizing our orders book, iterating
with our customers on timing, because I
think the the most important question is
not where this is going, but exactly the
time everything is going to be needed.
And good businesses build things exactly
when they're needed and not too early to
the point that they sit on working
capital as an example. So where we do
have a lot of conviction is the
direction of travel over the next 10 to
15 years. Exactly the timing of what's
needed in 28 versus 31. We have a lot of
humility that uh the market will tell us
those answers as this thing moves
forward. But what we're investing into
is to be ready for this moment. And once
we're ready for that moment, we will
only build on purchase order, on demand.
So we don't build on spec, so to speak,
hoping to sell something. What we will
do is make the investments in our
factories, make the investments in R&D
to ensure we're ready for the moment,
and then wait for the customers to tell
us they're ready.
>> Well, Scott, this has been fascinating.
Uh, thank you so much for taking the
time to be with us.
>> Christopher Tim, thank you very much.
I've really enjoyed it and uh, thanks
for having us and look forward to future
conversations.
>> This is a message for all those bold
name fanatics who aren't just my mother.
We need your help because we're cooking
up something great. Yeah, we're going to
be taking your questions. This is your
first chance to ask us directly. Maybe
something in our columns, something we
might have some expertise in. Maybe you
just want to see behind the scenes, or
you want to know if Tim's fan club
includes anyone other than his mom. But
send us your selfie videos or voice
memos with your questions to
bolds@wsj.com.
We might use them in a future episode.
Can't wait to hear from you and hear all
those questions.
>> [music]